# NVMPUSHUP.
#### Video Demo:  <https://youtu.be/0ioKY5AHnoY>
#### Description:
NVMPUSHUP. is a web app that allows one to calculate their IPPT score, record it down in the website to view their progress in chronological order as well as view others' scores so as to motivate oneself to work harder to improve their own scores. As a Singaporean son, I have to serve my National Service, a mandatory 2 year term where I enlist into the army to serve my nation. As part of National Service, we often take this fitness test called the IPPT(Individual Physical Proficiency Test). However, most records are not made public due to the sensitive nature of how the camps are run being inherently displayed in the army logs. As such, I created NVMPUSHUP., a website that gives more transparency to the IPPT scores so that one is able to better motivate and encourage other people and themselves to work on their fitness and strive for higher awards. 

I decided to go with a web app as web design is not my strong suit and I wanted to challenge myself. I used mainly Python, HTML and Jinja templating to construct the web app, this is mainly due to the fact that I am more of a logic guy and was very uncomfortable when we had to use CSS and JavaScript to customise the frontend. As such, my webapp focuses more on the backend logic instead of thee frontend aesthetics. The web app uses a few SQL tables: users, ippt and latest. It has a few tabs: register, login, index, record, progress and leaderboard.

The register tab allows oneself to register themselves, their data is the stored into the users SQL table. The login tab is used to create a file-based session for the user so that they can access the rest of the tabs such as progress, record and leaderboard. The record tab is used to
receive IPPT data from the user and POSTS it back to the /record tab, the data is then extracted and inserted into the ippt and latest table. The progress and leaderboard tables utilise the ippt and latest tables respectively to show the relevant data. The progress tab shows all of the user's IPPT entries sorted chronologically and the leaderboard tab shows all the latest IPPT scores of the peers in their company.

'users' table is used to store each unique user's information, such as their callsign in the army, their unique id to identify them in the SQL tables, the company they belong to and the hash of their password registered. This id is used across all other tables to help identify and associate the scores to the users as required

'ippt' contains every entry made through the Record tab and is referenced to build the progress table. It contains the YYMMDD format date of the entry, the number of pushups, situps and run timing in minutes and seconds separated. The record tab in the website uses a calculator() function that I abstracted to calculate the number of points awarded in this IPPT and assigns a grade accordingly as well. All of this is submitted into the ippt table. At the same time, an entry is also made into the 'latest' table to facilitate the leaderboard tab.

'latest' table contains the latest ippt entry for all users. It is used to build leaderboard, where all users in the same Company are shown each others' IPPT scores so as to encourage them to work harder. It is built with the assumption that new submissions are latest submissions, when one submits data into record, it is also inserted into the 'latest' table. Therefore, the latest submission made by the user is what gets recorded into the 'latest' table.
